Need you to do a deep dive on
a person named Amelia Parsons.
GREGORIO:
Amelia's Barlow's hit woman.
She's like
the female Jason Bourne.
You really are annoying.
And you really are gonna put
those hard drives
on the ground.
Of course.
If it wasn't for me,
you wouldn't have Amelia.
If it wasn't for you, she'd be
able to answer our questions.
Instead, she's at the Mercy
Hospital in an induced coma.
Thank you.
Let's have a toast.
We can all drink
to whatever y'all want to
as soon as I change
out of these clothes.
Come on, hurry up.
I know, I know, everyone's
waiting, I'm on my way.
Just enjoying the view.
WOMAN:
Dwayne?
Dwayne.
Dwayne, there's not much time.
Come on, let's go.
What
Can't explain.
It's not safe here.Something's happened.
Is my team okay?They're fine.
But we have to go now.
Where?You'll see soon.
You're CIA.
I know you, right?
That's need-to-know.
And all you need to know is that
I came at great personal risk
to get you out.
You have to trust me.
Your name's Sutter.
But you're dead.
I found your body.
I was hoping to make this
easier on you.
I was shot.
How did I survive?
Oh, sweetie. You didn't.
LASALLE:
Pride, open the door!
Hey, Pride, open the door!
King.
♪ Boom, boom, boom, boom
♪ Bang, bang, bang, bang
♪ How, how, how, how
♪ Hey, hey
♪ You gotta come on.
This is NCIS Agent Lasalle.
We have a 10-55,
multiple gunshots to the chest.
1431 Royal Street,
above the Trutone.
All right? Please hurry.
NCIS. Stop!
SEBASTIAN: What's taking
you guys so long?
Hey, Pride's been shot.
It's Amelia.
WhatGo get the others. I'm pursuing.
LASALLE: Watch out,
look out, look out.
Everybody, get down!
Take cover!
Oh, my God.No, wait! Don't!
God. You okay?Get back in the car!
GREGORIO: Suspect's name, Amelia Parsons.
She's armed and dangerous.
We need every unit you have,
and we need to know where
that damn ambulance is.
He's still bleeding. I don't
know where it's coming from.
Need to turn him
on his side.You think we should move him?
Yes.
Carefully.
Could have damage to the spine.
Okay, look for any exit wounds.
Okay. I'm-I'm not
finding anything.
Well, bullets travel through
the body, could exit anywhere.
Yeah. Wait, here.
Here, there's one.
Now what?Put pressure on it.
We got to stop the bleeding.
Oh, my God.
It's-it's not stopping.
Then you're not putting enough
pressure on it, Sebastian.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah. I think...
I think it's working.
Dwayne, can you hear me
How is he?He's nonresponsive.
Barely got a pulse. We need
to get him to the ambulance now.
PATTON:
All right, come on, people!
Make a lane!
BP's dropping.
We need to stabilize.
Could be bleeding internally.
Hang in there, Pride.
Turn him around.Let's turn the gurney.
Turn him, turn him.Turn it.
All right,
let's get him up.Got it.
Hi there.
What's happening?
You're the detective.
Think you can figure it out.
Where is everyone?Don't worry about them.
This is sort of
a you-and-me thing.
It's confusing, I know, but...
all you have to do
is take my hand.
Everything will become clear.
♪
GREGORIO:
Amelia got away?
Nearly killed a civilian
when she took his car.
Every law enforcement agency
in the state is gunning for her.
Roadblocks everywhere.Talking about a
woman who escaped
Parish jail hospital
to come after Pride.
She can evade a manhunt.
Yeah, but when I returned fire,
she was hit.
One of the bullets
caught her stomach.
That'll slow her down.Yeah. Judging
by the blood,
she needs medical attention.
Gives us a window of opportunity
to track her before she flees.
Yeah, hope you found
some evidence
to do just that,
Sebastian.
This is the part where you
fill us in on what you found.
I've been to a lot
of crime scenes.
This much blood, usually
the victim doesn't make it.
"Usually" doesn't count here.
What if he dies?Not an option.
Look at the amount
of blood that...Listen, Sebastian.
Dwayne Pride is stronger
than a couple of bullets.
He'll pull through,
and we'll take Amelia down.
'Cause you're gonna
work this scene
and find us
the evidence we need.
All right, I-I think I saw
some smudges on the floor
where Amelia might
have been hiding.
I'll take samples.
You really think
Pride's gonna pull through?
Absolutely.
GSW to the chest.
He's lost a lot of blood.
He's having difficulty
breathing.
NURSE:
Sats are dropping.
WADE:
He has a hemothorax.
He's gonna need a chest tube.
We need to get him
to the O.R. now.
Let's move.
You, wait here.
THE ANGEL:
Oh, Dwayne.
When a nine-millimeter bullet
is fired at close range,
it enters the human body
at maximum velocity,
puncturing
tissue and bone,
wreaking havoc
on vital organs.
You have three of those in you.
Not looking good.
Doctors are gonna do their part.
Of course
they will.
And you'll do yours.I'm a fighter.
Everyone knows it.I'll hold on.
But at what cost?
Both lungs collapsed,
heart nicked,
you're bleeding internally.
So much trauma.
You're thinking
I should give up?
Not give up.
Let go.
So that's what this is.
You've come
to convince me to die.
Oh, Dwayne.
You got me all wrong.
I didn't come here.
You summoned me.
What's that supposed to mean?
Every time you put yourself
in danger, which is a lot,
I've been there.
Keeping my distance,
letting you take the lead.
I've watched you pull yourself
from the brink over and over.
I brought you here?
I think you're crushing on me.
Maybe we should both
take the hint?
NURSE: His heart rate's
starting to drop,
and it's dropping fast.
SURGEON: Keep working
and try to slow it down.
I don't want him
bottoming out on us.
We're gonna need
to operate now.
NURSE:
What's his heart rate at?
Do we have time
to stabilize him?
Heart rate's bottomed out.
Vitals are dropping.
We're losing him.Let's open him up.
See what we're dealing with.
Pulse ox
is at seven and dropping.
[indistinct chatter,
voices distort and fade]
NCIS.
No, I can't tell you about
Special Agent Pride's condition.
Because I can't, all right?
I-I can't!
You got to leave
this phone line open.
God. Another reporter.
Like a dog with a bone.
Need to maintain
a media blackout.
Yeah, well, that's pretty easy.
I mean, we don't know anything.
How long could the
guy be in surgery?
NCIS.
No comment.
I talked to Laurel.
Some sort of computer outage
at the New York airports.
Everything's grounded.
It'll be fine.
Laurel will get a flight,
Pride will get out of surgery,
and we need to
keep positive.
Well, we also need
to be realistic.
There's a chance
we could lose him.
PATTON:
Until we hear from Doc Wade,
we can either wallow in doubt
or stay on task.
We're staying on task.
Can't do anything to help Pride
except track Amelia down.
What do we know
Whoa, whoa.
One at a time.
Gregorio?
Law enforcement's monitoring
every hospital
and clinic in the area.
No sign of her yet.
Okay, I reviewed every security
and traffic cam within the
ten-mile radius of her escape.
She ditched her car
outside city limits.
All right, my turn?
I analyzed the smudges, uh,
that we found
in Pride's kitchen.
Boat resin, common brand,
with traces
of clay minerals
and sediment consistent
with Mississippi River water.
That doesn't narrow
our search much.
GREGORIO:
No, but FBI brought in
their detection dog unit,
used a sample
of Amelia's blood to try
to track her movements
where she ditched the car.
They can focus
closer to the river.
Yeah, or canals
or dozens of tributaries.
It's not good enough.
NCIS.
Another reporter.Dang it.
No, we have
no comment.
Listen, take a beat.
All right?
You got a lot
on your plate.
I had her, Gregorio.
I mean, she was right in my
hands, and I let her slip away.
If I was
a split second faster...
But you got to put
that out of your mind,
because you're our boss right
now, and we need you thinking
three steps ahead,
not looking behind.
HQ. They need me in SCIF.
Well, get to it, boss.
GIBBS:
Christopher.
Gibbs.
How's he doing Not good.
Yep. I know both sides of that.
His and yours.
You stay strong.
I'm trying to.
Director Vance doing all right?
Yeah, he's on the mend.
Your suspect, Amelia Parsons.
The best we can tell,
she was tying up loose ends
for her former employer.
Probably fleeing now.
It's not about loose ends.You got a lead?
Yeah, we sent you a classified
file on your shooter.
We've already been read in
on Amelia's file.
No, you haven't.
Not on this one.
She's CIA?
She contracted for them.
Off the books, wet work.
Part of a hit team.
Yeah, with someone
you might recognize.
Her husband, John Stone.
Mr. Stone and Pride tangled
about a year ago.
He went over the side of a roof.
Means this wasn't
about business.
Means she's making it
about revenge.
Helps a lot.
Thanks, Gibbs.GIBBS: Christopher?
We know what Dwayne
means to you.
All of us.
You take it personal.
Know what you're going to say.
Keep my feelings out of it
and work the case.
No. Just the opposite.
You use those feelings.
You make it personal.
You do what you have to do
to get Amelia.
[indistinct announcement
over P.A.]
Haven't left his side
all night?
Oh, only to change clothes.
If the roles were reversed,
he'd have done the same.
I'm glad you're here, Rita.
Nothing would have stopped me.
Uh, how was the surgery?
They removed almost two bullets
from the chest,
but there's a fragment lodged
near the ventricle artery.
His heart.
A specialist is needed to
even attempt to remove it.
Someone in town?Houston.
Fact of the matter
is he probably couldn't
survive the flight.
What are his chances
of stabilizing?
Slim.
Well, I hope that's not
your version of sugarcoating.
If it were any other patient,
he wouldn't have survived
the night.
But you know Dwayne.
Always the overachiever.
Well, there's some good news.
Our team has a lead
on the suspect.
If this was an excuse
to get me to come down here,
I didn't need the grand gesture.
All you had to do was call.
Oh, babe, what a mess.
♪
Clear.
Clear!
Place is empty.
She's definitely been here,
though.
SEBASTIAN:
Hey.
You guys will want to see this.
Boat's missing.
She's on the river.
No way to know which direction.
2,000 square miles of
waterways she could be using.
There aren't enough cops
in the state of Louisiana
that could track her now.
Might not be able to find her,
but we may be able
to draw her back.
You heard Sebastian.
She's gone.
Well, as far as
Amelia's concerned,
Pride killed her husband.
She broke out of prison
and risked everything
to return the favor.
Retribution's more important
to her than her own safety.
Yeah, she thinks she succeeded.
What happens if she knew
he was still alive?
What are you thinking?
What would Pride do?
REPORTER: And now an update
on a developing story.
Law enforcement officials
have broken the media blackout
on the federal agent
who was gunned down last night
in his New Orleans apartment.
According to the chief
of surgery
at Saint Mary's Hospital,
the wounded agent
is in good condition
and will be medevaced to Houston
for specialized surgery
this afternoon.
The victim is a well
...pillar of the community
known for
his law enforcement experience
with NCIS.
Thankfully,
Special Agent Dwayne Pride
is expected
to make a full recovery.
And now onto the weather.
WEATHERMAN:
This week's going to be
a hot and humid one.
[broadcast continues
indistinctly]
Actually, on second thought,
there is something that I need.
REPORTER: According to
Saint Mary's Hospital,
the wounded agent
is in good condition
and will be medevaced to Houston
for specialized...
This news report is crazy.
You might as well
have told the world
what room Pride's staying in.
Breaking the media blackout
is our only chance
of drawing Amelia back.
Using our boss as bait?
That's the whole point.
She's gonna want to try
to finish the job.
What if she succeeds?
Well, that's why
we set up a decoy.
Ambulance leaves the hospital
for the helipad.
We're surrounded
by undercover SWAT.
As far as Amelia's concerned,
Pride's inside.
PATTON: And I'll be
monitoring traffic cams.
If she comes,
we'll be ready for her.
We've done it before.
And you were almost shot
by a sniper that time.
What are our other options?
All right? Letting
Amelia slip away?
She comes back in six months,
maybe a year,
to find Pride again?Trust me.
I do not love this plan, okay?
But it's the best bad idea
that we have,
and we have to focus
on taking her down.
And what if the roles
were reversed?
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
it's what Pride would do.
And look where it got him.
Look, I want everybody
in agreement here.
If you think
we should call it off...
Like Sebastian says...
best bad idea.
But I'm going up to that
hospital to watch over Pride.
She's not getting
a second shot at him.
Update?
Status quo, I'm afraid.
I'm a woman of action, you know?
Always have been.
I see a problem, no
matter how complicated,
and I work it
until I find a solution.
But this, it...
The waiting game.
Maybe he needs motivation
to keep fighting,
to push through.
Maybe... maybe he needs
his daughter.
She's still in New York,
and there's no flights
in or out.
Another waiting game.
Dwayne's fate is not going to be
decided by a computer glitch.
I'm gonna make some calls.
Yeah.
Every time you take a risk,
this was exactly what I was
afraid would happen.
And now that it has...
...I'm at a loss for words.
I'm sure that surprises you.
I know...
you're holding on
right now,
and I desperately
want you to fight.
But, Dwayne,
if you can't...
:
If you can't fight anymore...
...it's okay.
It is.
We'll be all right here.
THE ANGEL:
She's right, you know?
They'll all be fine without you.
But I... I still have...
Dwayne Pride.
Literally on death's doorstep,
and you're still thinking
about work.
You see how messed up
that is, right?
It's more than
just work for me.
You're a crusader.
Always on the lookout
for another
killer to catch, victim
to help, justice to serve.
Exactly.
You're not the only one
who can serve it.
Billions of people
live out their lives every day
without the benefit of you.
I'm not claiming
to be special.
But you are, Dwayne.
You have sacrificed
for the greater good
time and time and time again.
What more do you have to prove?
There's more to it
than just... work.
Your daughter.
Laurel will be fine without you.
She's used to not
having you around.
You don't know what
you're talking about.
Let's not fight.
I'm really not here
to make you feel bad.
You're not here at all,
and neither am I.
Yeah, we can go
round and round
on a metaphysical debate
all day long,
but we don't have
that luxury.
You're a figment
of my imagination
presenting evidence I've
considered dozens of times.
Yes.
Middle-of-the-night stuff,
keeping you awake.
Making you question
every move you've ever made.
Were you present
and accounted for?
Were you fair to your team?
Your daughter?
Always did what I
thought was best.
Absolutely.
You know what's right.
Have the courage
of your conviction.
Do the right thing.
Yeah.
Not convinced.
:
Is Pride talking?
Yes, but not to me.
Well, that's got
to be a sign.
It's been happening
since he's been here.
Whoever it is seems
to be riling him up.
GREGORIO:
Well, that's good.
Means he's sticking with us,
don't you think?
I think we all have
different ways
of coping with the
possibility of death.
Dwayne's arguing,
Rita's keeping busy,
and you're staying positive.
Trying, Loretta.
Lasalle's coping method
is channeling Pride.
He's got a Hail Mary plan
to draw Amelia out.
Dangerous, audacious, with
a limited margin for error?
Yep.
Uh-huh.
Dwayne would approve.
LASALLE:
All right, we're headed out on
the Crescent City Connection.
Getting off now.
Heliport's three miles away.
If Amelia takes the bait,
it'll be anywhere
along this route.
PATTON:
Monitoring every camera
within a three-mile radius.
Got your six. Eyes peeled.
This girl is tricky.
LASALLE: We got eight cops armed
to the teeth backing us up,
so, uh, we're good.
Yeah. I-I did the math,
and, uh, if we succeed,
we'll be facing
a professional assassin
who's eluded every
cop in the state,
and whose sole purpose
is to kill us.
Fingers crossed. We play
this right, we'll...
You hurt
No.
Driver, let me see your hands!
Get 'em up!
Do it!
:
I'm sorry.
She made me!
She
No. It's okay.
All right, it's okay.
It'll be all right.
This is a diversion.
How does Amelia know it worked?
She's watching us.
We got to get back
to the hospital.
Fellas.
Female patient
with GSW to the abdomen.
Facial lacerations,
possible broken ribs.
Vitals stable?
Yes.
Good. Clean her up.
Let's see what
we're dealing with.
Okay, dear, we
are going to take
care...
Shh.
PILOT:
Air Four is breaking cover
to proceed to Saint Mary's.
Amelia figured out
we set a trap for her.
She sent her own decoy.
We're securing the building now.
What
MAN:
Everybody down! Take cover!
I'd say she is already.
WADE: Go now!GREGORIO: All right,
stay with Pride.
Keep him safe.
I'll deal with Amelia.
Just in case.
What am I supposed
to do with this?
Point and shoot.
Close this.
MAN:
We've lost power!
[woman gasps,
whimpers]
Aah! Careful, Rita.
We can't jostle him.
Kind of hard
if we're supposed to hide him.
Shouldn't be moved at all.Where should we take him?
Ah, this will do.
The morgue?
Well, the only other folks
in here are dead.
No more targets for Amelia.
Except us.
All right.
How's he doing?
Not good.
Pulse is failing.
Oh, he's bleeding again.
Damn it.
I know you're in there.
Give me Pride,
and I'll let you live.
I'm not sure how this works.
I've got this.
Geez, he's crashing.
Can you help him?
No, we've got to get
him upstairs soon.
Wait!
You really are stubborn,
aren't you?
This needs to end.Yes. People you love
are about to die, and you have
the power to make that stop.
There's got to
be another way.But there's not.
There's got to be.
Honestly,
why is this even
a question, Dwayne?
Just take my hand now.
LASALLE:
Amelia!
Check the others.
Yeah.
I'm not letting her
get away again.All right.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
It's me, it's Sebastian.
Is everyone all right?
No. Dwayne just flatlined.
We need help! Now!
What's happening?He's crashing.
Amelia?
Lasalle and Sebastian
are after her.
No pulse. Let's start CPR.
Prepping for defib.
He's hypovolemic.
DL is three.Stand by to charge.
LASALLE:
It's over, Amelia!
Stay where you are.
:
Not a lot of options.
Pride...
he's dead, right?
You will be
if you don't stop moving.
I know how you feel.
It hurts, doesn't it?
The man you kidnapped
at the diner, where is he?
Trunk of a Honda, block away.
Don't move.
Do something about it.
Yeah, that works for me.
Christopher.
Chris, hey, man.
What are you doing?
Stay back, Sebastian.
Hey, listen.
This isn't right, okay?
You hear me?
It's not right.
Hey, this isn't the way.
Yeah.
I know.
Her weapon's secured. Cuff her.
King?
He's in trouble.
Still no pulse.Resume CPR.
Charge to 200.Charged.
Clear.
I know that music.
From my childhood.
It's nice, right? Warm.
Mmm.
This is what it will
always feel like...
only better.
You'll be surrounded by love...
people you care for.
Most of the people I care for
are still around.
Everyone ends up here, Dwayne.
It's the price of admission.
If not now,
eventually.
Is that...?
♪
Is that my mother?
She'll be here soon.
Just as you remember her.
Young.
Happy.
You drive a hard bargain.
I'm just a guide.
You make the choice.
And if I choose this?
Oh, Dwayne.
You already did.
Yeah.
♪
Not to be cliché, but...
you kind of gotta step
into the light.
What was that?
Nothing.DOCTOR: Resume CPR.
It's time to go.
Charge to 300.
Clear.
I'm still fighting.
Just one more step.
Then no more doubt, no pain.
Just peace.
You said billions of
people don't need me,
but there are
still some who do.
And I can help them.
You're delaying the inevitable.
You said it was my choice.
And you already chose.
You've been dead
for three minutes.
DOCTOR:
Resume CPR.
It's over.
Charge to 300.
Let's go.NURSE: Clear.
NURSE:
He's not responding.
DOCTOR:
Resume CPR. Let's go again.
330.
Clear.
NURSE:
Still nothing.
LAUREL:
Daddy.
Daddy!
:
Please.
Not yet.
NURSE: Still no pulse.DOCTOR: Resume CPR.
Daddy, Daddy, hang in there,
Daddy, please.
WADE:
I'm sorry, baby.
He's gone.
No. No.
DOCTOR: Charge to 360.NURSE: Charged.
Clear.
Got a pulse.
What
What's happening?
What's going on?
He's back?
LAUREL:
Daddy, Daddy.
Daddy, hi.
Hi.
You're gonna be
all right, Daddy.
A-And we're all here for you.
What
Is he all right?He's okay.
He's okay. I was
so sure he was dead.
What? You said the whole time
you thought...
Just shut up and
hug me, please.
He's stable.
They were able
to stop the bleeding.
And he'll be ready
to travel in the morning.
We have got to get
these doctors and nurses,
like, a really nice
fruit basket or something.
Surgeon said it was a miracle.
Laurel was the miracle.
He was gone, and she
brought him back to life.
PATTON:
Not sure how you made it.
Airports in New York
are still shut down.
Yeah, I was waiting in line
to rent a car,
and this Marine detail arrived,
escorted me
to a transport plane
heading for Belle Chasse.
I knew you had juice,
but I didn't know
you had this kind of pull.
I just made a call to D.C.
Friend of Pride's did the rest.
I think I know who you mean.
We have a little time
before we can see Dwayne.
Breakfast on me.
Mmm.
I'll catch up with you.
Y'all save me a biscuit.
Gibbs.
The D-Man, he's pulling through.
Yeah. He's being transferred
to Houston in the morning.
It's all good.
LASALLE:
Yeah, I got to thank you
for the assist on the case.
And getting Laurel here.
It's what we do. Amelia?
She's in custody.
Under double guard
at a federal prison hospital.
Yeah. You good with that?
Honestly,
I don't know how I feel.
Well, you did what you thought
was right.
LASALLE:
Yeah, I guess.
Just glad King's gonna make it.
Hopefully, everything
will be back to normal.
Survival, that's one thing.
Normal,
that is a whole other game.
What do you mean?
Give, uh, Dwayne some time,
Chris.
He's gonna need it.
RITA:
No backseat flying, Dwayne.
You let the pilot choose
the route.
You know I used to fly
these things.
Daddy, you'll be in Houston
in a couple hours.
We're gonna drive there
together.
We'll arrive before
surgery starts.
I knew I'd find a way to get
you two to meet each other.
Save the jokes and your energy.
LAUREL:
And, Dad,
no more drama, okay?
Scout's honor.
EMT:
Okay.
We're ready.
You'll have to step away.
Good-bye.
♪
See you soon, Dwayne.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org